hi this is elise mcmahon for expert
village and we're talking today about
how to teach your dog a reliable stay if
you'd like to find out more about my
services you can visit my website at
canineheadstart.com so we're talking now
about introducing this day and we've
discussed when you vary the very first
time you start you're going to use a
behavior that your dog is familiar with
now that we've introduced that concept
we can use another position that your
dog might be less familiar with and that
would be the down or the stand for most
dogs so I'm going to just show you how
to do that with both of those behaviors
munchkin this way good girl I'm going to
ask her for a different position or she
set down the girl stay and I'm going to
just again stay by her and reward her
for holding that position I'm not
challenging the situation by trying to
move away from her I'm giving her
frequent rewards and then I release her
ok good girl now we're going to do it in
the stand hey sweetie Ursa stand stay
good girl good girl now
stay requires the dogs good girl okay
this dance day requires that the dog not
move her feet from the position that you
put them in not every dog owner is going
to be that specific but that's really
what we're asking for when we asked for
a stands day you put them in a position
and they hold that position so you can
see that we've moved from working with
an easy behavior for the dog working
with the sit-in to working with a
slightly more difficult behavior for dog
which is holding the down and holding
the stand and in the beginning of
working with this you're just going to
stay right there with your dog